Add macOS overview (#2150)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/os/macos-overview.md

- [x] Click **Turn On**

Unlike iOS, macOS doesn't give you an option to randomize your MAC address in the settings, so you'll need to do it with a command or a script.

You open up your Terminal and enter this command to randomize your MAC address:

``` zsh
openssl rand -hex 6 | sed 's/\(..\)/\1:/g; s/.$//' | xargs sudo ifconfig en1 ether 
```

en1 is the name of the interface you're changing the MAC address for. This might not be the right one on every Mac, so to check you can hold the option key and click the Wi-Fi symbol at the top right of your screen.

This will be reset on reboot.

## Software

> 

Reviewer: Do we think we could elaborate on what these defenses actually are? Defense in depth is just a basic security practice for things that companies like Apple develop, it’s not particularly notable that they layer their security defenses, but their specific implementation probably is.

> 

Author: So basically he's talking about Gatekeeper in the presentation, that seems to be what he means by defense in depth.

> 

Author: I'm not really sure where to put this, my original idea was to follow the structure in the Apple Platform Security docs but I would have to reformat the whole thing to follow this structure.

[Lockdown Mode](https://blog.privacyguides.org/2022/10/27/macos-ventura-privacy-security-updates/#lockdown-mode) disables some features in order to improve security. Some apps or features won't work the same way they do when it's off, for example, [JIT](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/02/a-crash-course-in-just-in-time-jit-compilers/) and [WASM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/WebAssembly) are disabled in Safari with Lockdown Mode enabled. We recommend enabling Lockdown Mode and seeing whether it significantly impacts your usage, many of the changes it makes are easy to live with.

- [x] Click **Turn On**

Unlike iOS, macOS doesn't give you an option to randomize your MAC address in the settings, so you'll need to do it with a command or a script.

You open up your Terminal and enter this command to randomize your MAC address:

``` zsh
openssl rand -hex 6 | sed 's/\(..\)/\1:/g; s/.$//' | xargs sudo ifconfig en1 ether 
```

en1 is the name of the interface you're changing the MAC address for. This might not be the right one on every Mac, so to check you can hold the option key and click the Wi-Fi symbol at the top right of your screen.

This will be reset on reboot.

> ## Software

Reviewer: #2222 reminds me: we should add something about not running Public/Developer Betas. Besides just being _betas_ that are not suitable for regular use, they also have increased unnecessary analytics enabled by default (possibly mandatory like on Windows Insider builds? I’d have to double-check).

Author: Yes good idea.

Note that the camera does not have a hardware disconnect, since its view is obscured when the lid is closed anyway.

### Peripheral Processor Security

Computers have built-in processors other than the main CPU that handle things like networking, graphics, power management, etc. These processors can have insufficient security and become compromised, therefore Apple tries to minimize the need for these processors in their hardware.

When it is necessary to use one of these processors, Apple works with the vendor to ensure that the processor

- runs verified firmware from the primary CPU on startup
- has its own Secure Boot chain
- follows minimum cryptographic standards
- ensures known bad firmware is properly revoked
- has its debug interfaces disabled
- is signed with Apple's cryptographic keys

### Direct Memory Access Protections

Apple Silicon separates each component that requires direct memory access. For example, a Thunderbolt port can't access memory designated for the kernel.

### Privacy Issues

There are a few privacy concerns with macOS that you should consider.

> The first time you set up your new Mac, you'll need an internet connection so you can activate it on Apple's servers.

Author: That might be it actually.

> As part of macOS's security model, the first time a program is run it will be subject to a malware scane and a signature check to make sure it's not malware.

Author: It's not an issue for me really.

> As part of macOS's security model, the first time a program is run it will be subject to a malware scane and a signature check to make sure it's not malware.

Author: Was trying to implement @jonaharagon 's suggestion

---
title: macOS Overview
icon: simple/apple
description: macOS is Apple's desktop operating system that works with their hardware to provide strong security.
---

> macOS provides great security out-of-the-box. With some tweaks, you can tailor it to your privacy needs.

Reviewer: I want to add more introductory content here before we merge this, stuff that answers questions like: _who is macOS useful for?_ and _are there privacy concerns with macOS?_

Relatedly, while we are covering macOS's security advantages here, I don't think we touch enough on privacy _problems_ with macOS, stuff like an internet connection now being required for the initial install, apps being scanned by Apple when they're launched, and the difficulty in auditing macOS for security researchers.

macOS to me is a pretty solid _middle ground_, but the middle ground is not always the best choice for people with advanced requirements, which should be addressed.

Author: For scanning apps, do you mean XProtect? I thought that just worked off signatures. Have you tested installing it without an internet connection? Wasn't aware it required that. Never heard that macOS is difficult for security researchers, would probably need some kind of source for that.

Author: I think OCSP probably isn't a big deal but we could mention it. 

With notarization, I'm still unclear if anything is ever actually sent to Apple, I think that would be the only reason to even mention it as a privacy concern. 

I do remember having to activate my Mac the first time I did the setup so yeah I think you're right, but this can be easily mitigated by setting it up at Starbucks or something (maybe I'll mention that).

That article is a bit old now, I think maybe a direct link to a writeup by a security researcher or something might be better if you have that.

Author: Hmm yeah we could mention it then.

Open the Settings app.

### Bluetooth

- [ ] Uncheck **Bluetooth** (unless you are currently using it)

### Network

Depending on if you are using **Wi-Fi** or **ethernet** (denoted by a green dot and the word "connected"), click on the corresponding icon.

Click on the "Details" button by your network name.

- [x] Check **Limit IP address tracking**

**Firewall**

Your firewall blocks unwanted network connections. The stricter your firewall settings are, the more secure your Mac is. However, certain services will be blocked. You should configure your firewall to be as strict as you can without blocking services you use.

- [x] Check **Firewall**

Click the **Options** button

- [x] Check **Block all incoming connections**

If this configuration is too strict, you can come back and uncheck this.

### General

By default, your device name will be something like "[your name]'s iMac". You'll want to change your device name to something generic like "Mac".

Click on **About** and type your desired device name into the **Name** field.

**Software Updates**

You should automatically install all available updates to make sure your Mac has the latest security fixes.

> Click the small **i** icon next to **Automatic Updates**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the small :material-information-outline: icon next to **Automatic Updates**
```

- [x] Check **Check for updates**

- [x] Check **Download new updates when available**

- [x] Check **Install macOS updates**

- [x] Check **Install application updates from the App Store**

- [x] Check **Install Security Responses and system files**

### Privacy & Security

Whenever an application requests a permission, it will show up here. You can decide which applications you want to allow or deny specific permissions.

**Location Services**

You can individaully allow location services per-app. Turning off location services system-wide is the most private option.

- [ ] Uncheck **Location Services**

**Analytics & Improvements**

Decide whether you want to share analytics data with Apple and developers.

- [ ] Uncheck **Share Mac Analytics**

- [ ] Uncheck **Improve Siri & Dictation**

> - [ ] Uncheck **Share with app developers**

Author: It's not there for me and I'm signed in to iCloud

> - [ ] Uncheck **Share with app developers**

Reviewer: Sources indicate this was added in macOS 10.12, so I don’t think I’m seeing this just because I’m on the Sonoma beta. Not sure why you aren’t?

https://www.idownloadblog.com/2017/03/30/how-to-stop-sharing-icloud-analytics-data/

> - [ ] Uncheck **Share with app developers**

Author: What version of macOS are you on? I'm on Ventura 13.4.1

> - [ ] Uncheck **Share with app developers**

Author: So I guess it's there for some people. I'll just merge this then.

``` zsh
openssl rand -hex 6 | sed 's/\(..\)/\1:/g; s/.$//' | xargs sudo ifconfig en1 ether 
```

en1 is the name of the interface you're changing the MAC address for. This might not be the right one on every Mac, so to check you can hold the option key and click the Wi-Fi symbol at the top right of your screen.

This will be reset on reboot.

## Software

### Signed System Volume

macOS's system components are protected in a read-only signed system volume, meaning that neither you nor malware can alter important system files.

The system volume is verified while it's running and any data that's not signed with a valid cryptographic signature from Apple will be rejected.

### System Integrity Protection

macOS sets certain security restrictions that can't be overridden. These are called Mandatory Access Controls, and they form the basis of the sandbox, parental controls, and System Integrity Protection on macOS.

System Integrity Protection makes critical file locations read-only to protect against modification from malicious code. This is on top of the hardware-based Kernel Integrity Protection that keeps the kernel from being modified in-memory.

### Rosetta

> Rosetta is a translation layer that lets you run programs for Intel Macs on Apple silicon Macs. Installing Rosetta increases your attack surface, so you should only do so if you really need it.

Author: Well it lets you run programs for Intel Macs, which means it's technically true. But it's probably not worth mentioning tbh.

### Data Protection

In Macs with Apple silicon, your data is always stored encrypted with [Class C](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/data-protection-classes-secb010e978a/1/web/1) Data Protection.

You can enable **Filevault** to require a password to decrypt your drive.

### Application Security

#### App Sandbox

macOS apps downloaded from the App Store are required to be sandboxed usng the [App Sandbox](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/app_sandbox).

!!! warning

    Software downloaded from outside the official App Store is not required to be sandboxed. You should avoid non-App Store software as much as possible.

#### Antivirus

> macOS comes with built-in antivirus software called XProtect. ==We recommend that you **do not** install third-party antivirus software, as it is a major privacy and security concern.==

Reviewer: ```suggestion
macOS comes with two forms of malware defense:

1. Protection against launching malware in the first place is provided by the App Store's review process for App Store applications, or *Notarization* (part of *Gatekeeper*), a process where third-party apps are scanned for known malware by Apple before they are allowed to run.
2. Protection against other malware and remediation from existing malware on your system is provided by *XProtect*, a more traditional antivirus software built-in to macOS.

We recommend against installing third-party antivirus software as they typically do not have the system-level access required to properly function anyways, because of Apple's limitations on third-party apps, and because granting the high levels of access they do ask for often poses an even greater security and privacy risk to your computer.
```

Author: This is wrong, developers submit their apps to be scanned by Apple, they aren't scanned on your machine. (At least that's what it sounds like you're implying here.)

Author: Does it actually send anything to apple?

> #### Lockdown Mode
> 
> [Lockdown Mode](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212650#:~:text=When%20Lockdown%20Mode%20is%20enabled,not%20be%20available%20at%20all.) is a security-hardened setting that makes your system more resistant to attacks.
> 
> If you want the full benefits of Lockdown Mode, you should use Apple's apps when you have it enabled as they use the App Sandbox and are covered by System Integrity Protection, although you will still benefit from reduced attack surface even if you use third party apps.
> 
> For example, Safari will have [JIT](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/02/a-crash-course-in-just-in-time-jit-compilers/) and [WASM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/WebAssembly) disabled by default, and you'll also benefit from the App Sandbox and System Integrity Protection, since Safari is part of the immutable base system.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This isn't really core OS functionality, and is better covered in the settings section above I think, so I merged some of this with my suggestion there.

#### Backups

> macOS comes with automatic backup software called [Time Machine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250) so you can create encrypted backups to an external drive in the event of corrupted/deleted files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
macOS comes with automatic backup software called [Time Machine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250) so you can create encrypted backups to an external or network drive in the event of corrupted/deleted files.
```

## Hardware

> Many security features in macOS like Secure Boot rely on Apple's hardware to function properly. For this reason, ==we recommend you only run it on Macs and avoid Hackintoshes.==
> 
> Apple's newer hardware always has the [best security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/apple-soc-security-sec87716a080/1/web/1); you should check to make sure the Mac you're buying has at least their M1 chip, as their Intel Macs are vulnerable to the [checkm8](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Checkm8_Exploit) exploit.

Reviewer: This isn't strictly true, since OpenCore should have security for Hackintoshes on par with Intel Macs. It would be more accurate to simply recommend Apple Silicon, since both official Intel Macs and Hackintoshes fall short in comparison.

```suggestion
Many modern security features in macOS—such as modern Secure Boot, hardware-level exploit mitigation, OS integrity checks, and file-based encryption—rely on Apple Silicon, and Apple's newer hardware always has the [best security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/apple-soc-security-sec87716a080/1/web/1). We only encourage the use of Apple Silicon devices with macOS, and not older Intel Macs or Hackintoshes.

Some of these modern security features are available on older Intel Macs with the Apple T2 chip, but that chip is susceptible to the *checkm8* exploit which could compromise its security,
```

Apple's SoCs focus on minimizing attack surface by relegating security functions to dedicated hardware with limited functionality.

### Boot ROM

macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as secure boot. Macs verify this with a bit of read-only memory on the SoC called the boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.

The boot ROM forms the hardware root of trust. This ensures that malware cannot tamper with the boot process. When your Mac boots up, the boot ROM is the first thing that runs, forming the first link in the chain of trust.

Macs can be configured to boot in three security modes: *Full Security*, *Reduced Security*, and *Permissive Security*, with the default setting being Full Security. You should ideally be using Full Security mode and avoid things like **kernel extensions** that force you to lower your security mode. Make sure to [check](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-security-settings-startup-disk-a-mac-mchl768f7291/mac) that you're using Full Security mode.

### Secure Enclave

> The Secure Enclave is a security chip built into Apple's devices that's responsible for storing and generating encryption keys for data at reast as well as Face ID and Touch ID data. It contains its own separate boot ROM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secure Enclave is a security chip built into devices with Apple Silicon which is responsible for storing and generating encryption keys for data at rest as well as Face ID and Touch ID data. It contains its own separate boot ROM.
```

> It's separated from the rest of the system, so even if the main processor is compromised, it should still be safe.
> 
> You can think of the Secure Enclave as your device's security hub: it has an AES encryption engine and a mechanism to securely store your encryption keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can think of the Secure Enclave as your device's security hub: it has an AES encryption engine and a mechanism to securely store your encryption keys, and it's separated from the rest of the system, so even if the main processor is compromised, it should still be safe.
```

### Touch ID

Apple's Touch ID feature allows you to securely unlock your devices using biometrics.

Your biometric data never leaves your device; it's stored only in the Secure Enclave.

### Hardware Microphone Disconnect

> All Apple silicon MacBooks feature a hardware disconnect for the inbuilt microphone whenever the lid is closed. This means that there is no way for an attacker to listen to your Mac's microphone even if the operating system is compromised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All laptops with Apple Silicon feature a hardware disconnect for the built-in microphone whenever the lid is closed. This means that there is no way for an attacker to listen to your Mac's microphone even if the operating system is compromised.
```

Note that the camera does not have a hardware disconnect, since its view is obscured when the lid is closed anyway.

### Peripheral Processor Security

Computers have built-in processors other than the main CPU that handle things like networking, graphics, power management, etc. These processors can have insufficient security and become compromised, therefore Apple tries to minimize the need for these processors in their hardware.

When it is necessary to use one of these processors, Apple works with the vendor to ensure that the processor

- runs verified firmware from the primary CPU on startup
- has its own Secure Boot chain
- follows minimum cryptographic standards

> - doesn't run known bad firmware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ensures known bad firmware is properly revoked
```

- has its debug interfaces disabled
- is signed with Apple's cryptographic keys

### Direct Memory Access Protections

> Apple silicon SoCs contain an IOMMU to separate each component that requires direct memory access. For example, a Thunderbolt port can't access memory designated for the kernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apple Silicon firewalls each component that requires direct memory access apart from each other. For example, a Thunderbolt port can't access memory designated for the kernel.
```

Author: Is firewall the right word to use here? I want to keep the technical lingo accurate.

Author: Yeah my understanding is firewall is purely a networking term.

---
title: macOS Overview
icon: material/apple-finder
description: macOS is Apple's desktop operating system that works with their hardware to provide strong security.
---

> **macOS** is a Unix-based operating system developed by Apple for their Mac computers. To enhance privacy on macOS, you can disable telemetry features and harden existing privacy and security settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**macOS** is a Unix operating system developed by Apple for their Mac computers. To enhance privacy on macOS, you can disable telemetry features and harden existing privacy and security settings.
```

> **macOS** is a Unix-based operating system developed by Apple for their Mac computers. If you have a Mac already, you can increase your privacy by disabling some built-in telemetry features, and hardening some privacy and security settings which are built in to the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**macOS** is a Unix-based operating system developed by Apple for their Mac computers. To enhance privacy on macOS, you can disable telemetry features and harden existing privacy and security settings.
```

The previous wording felt a bit clunky.

> We wouldn't suggest using macOS with any hardware other than modern Apple Silicon machines. Older Intel-based Macs and Hackintoshes are missing a number of fundamental security features that macOS requires to secure your data most effectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Older Intel-based Macs and Hackintoshes do not support all the security features that macOS offers. To enhance data security, we recommend using a newer Mac with [Apple silicon](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211814).
```

"We wouldn't suggest using macOS with any hardware other than modern Apple Silicon machines." I think this would dissuade Intel-based Mac owners from continuing through the guide. There is still a number of subjects that apply to all Macs.

Author: Yeah it sort of makes it sound like if you have an Intel Mac you should install something else.

## Privacy Notes

There are a few notable privacy concerns with macOS that you should consider. These pertain to the operating system itself, and not Apple's other apps and services.

### Activation Lock

> Brand new Apple Silicon devices can be set up without an internet connection. However, recovering or resetting your Mac will **require** an internet connection to Apple's servers to check against the Activation Lock database of lost or stolen devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Brand new Apple silicon devices can be set up without an internet connection. However, recovering or resetting your Mac will **require** an internet connection to Apple's servers to check against the Activation Lock database of lost or stolen devices.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

Reviewer: Mandela effect moment lol

Previously, these checks were performed via an unencrypted OCSP protocol which could leak information about the apps you ran to your network. Apple upgraded their OCSP service to use HTTPS encryption in 2021, and [posted information](https://support.apple.com/HT202491) about their logging policy for this service. They additionally promised to add a mechanism for people to opt-out of this online check, but this has not been added to macOS as of July 2023.

While you [can](https://eclecticlight.co/2021/02/23/how-to-run-apps-in-private/) manually opt out of this check relatively easily, we recommend against doing so unless you would be badly compromised by the revocation checks performed by macOS, because they serve an important role in ensuring compromised apps are blocked from running.

## Recommended Configuration

Your account when you first set up your Mac will be an Administrator account, which has higher privileges than a Standard user account. macOS has a number of protections which prevent malware and other programs from abusing your Administrator privileges, so it is generally safe to use this account.

> However, exploits in protective utilities like `sudo` have been [discovered in the past](https://bogner.sh/2014/03/another-mac-os-x-sudo-password-bypass/). If you want to avoid the possibility that programs you run abuse your Administrator privileges, you could consider creating a second, Standard user account which you use for day-to-day operations. This has the added benefit of making it more obvious when an app needs admin access, because it will prompt you for credentials every time.

Author: I'm not sure I agree with this article. A standard account won't let you use sudo. sudo can do some real damage regardless of SIP, so I think it's worth mentioning. You're right that it doesn't matter for the Admin prompts since they're the same no matter what, although you have to also type the name of an administrator so that adds a very slight bit of extra security.

- [ ] Uncheck **Location Services**

##### Analytics & Improvements

Decide whether you want to share analytics data with Apple and developers.

- [ ] Uncheck **Share Mac Analytics**

- [ ] Uncheck **Improve Siri & Dictation**

- [ ] Uncheck **Share with app developers**

- [ ] Uncheck **Share iCloud Analytics** (visible if you are signed in to iCloud)

##### Apple Advertising

Decide whether you want personalized ads based on your usage.

- [ ] Uncheck **Personalized Ads**

##### Security

Apps from the App Store are subject to stricter security guidelines, such as stricter sandboxing. If the only apps you need are available from the App Store, change the **Allow applications downloaded from** setting to **App Store** to prevent accidentally running other apps. This is a good option particularly if you are configuring a machine for other, less technical users such as children.

If you choose to also allow applications from identified developers, be careful about the apps you run and where you obtain them.

##### FileVault

> On modern devices with a Secure Enclave (Apple T2 Security Chip, Apple Silicon), your data is always encrypted, but is decrypted automatically by a hardware key if your device doesn't detect it's been tampered with. Enabling FileVault additionally requires your password to decrypt your data, greatly improving security, especially when powered off or before the first login after powering on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On modern devices with a Secure Enclave (Apple T2 Security Chip, Apple silicon), your data is always encrypted, but is decrypted automatically by a hardware key if your device doesn't detect it's been tampered with. Enabling FileVault additionally requires your password to decrypt your data, greatly improving security, especially when powered off or before the first login after powering on.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

- [x] Click **Turn On**

### MAC Address Randomization

Unlike iOS, macOS doesn't give you an option to randomize your MAC address in the settings, so you'll need to do it with a command or a script.

You open up your Terminal and enter this command to randomize your MAC address:

``` zsh
openssl rand -hex 6 | sed 's/\(..\)/\1:/g; s/.$//' | xargs sudo ifconfig en1 ether 
```

en1 is the name of the interface you're changing the MAC address for. This might not be the right one on every Mac, so to check you can hold the option key and click the Wi-Fi symbol at the top right of your screen.

This will be reset on reboot.

### Advanced Configuration

> This guide should situate most people for adequate privacy on their Mac. If you desire a more in-depth configuration, @drduh's [MacOS Security and Privacy Guide](https://github.com/drduh/macOS-Security-and-Privacy-Guide) on GitHub provides a very technical set of instructions to follow to achieve "enterprise-level security."

Author: I read through that link a bit and I'm not really a fan. Among the recommendations are using OpenBSD for government adversaries, fear mongering about macOS becoming iOS, recommendations to install lots of third party software including some that requires kernel extensions, disabling SIP to modify some system services, and using the hosts file to block malware.

##### Antivirus

macOS comes with two forms of malware defense:

1. Protection against launching malware in the first place is provided by the App Store's review process for App Store applications, or *Notarization* (part of *Gatekeeper*), a process where third-party apps are scanned for known malware by Apple before they are allowed to run.
2. Protection against other malware and remediation from existing malware on your system is provided by *XProtect*, a more traditional antivirus software built-in to macOS.

We recommend against installing third-party antivirus software as they typically do not have the system-level access required to properly function anyways, because of Apple's limitations on third-party apps, and because granting the high levels of access they do ask for often poses an even greater security and privacy risk to your computer.

##### Backups

macOS comes with automatic backup software called [Time Machine](https://support.apple.com/HT201250), so you can create encrypted backups to an external or network drive in the event of corrupted/deleted files.

### Hardware Security

> Many modern security features in macOS—such as modern Secure Boot, hardware-level exploit mitigation, OS integrity checks, and file-based encryption—rely on Apple Silicon, and Apple's newer hardware always has the [best security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/apple-soc-security-sec87716a080/1/web/1). We only encourage the use of Apple Silicon, and not older Intel-based Mac computers or Hackintoshes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many modern security features in macOS—such as modern Secure Boot, hardware-level exploit mitigation, OS integrity checks, and file-based encryption—rely on Apple silicon, and Apple's newer hardware always has the [best security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/apple-soc-security-sec87716a080/1/web/1). We only encourage the use of Apple silicon, and not older Intel-based Mac computers or Hackintoshes.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

Apple's SoCs focus on minimizing attack surface by relegating security functions to dedicated hardware with limited functionality.

#### Boot ROM

macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as secure boot. Mac computers verify this with a bit of read-only memory on the SoC called the boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.

The boot ROM forms the hardware root of trust. This ensures that malware cannot tamper with the boot process. When your Mac boots up, the boot ROM is the first thing that runs, forming the first link in the chain of trust.

Mac computers can be configured to boot in three security modes: *Full Security*, *Reduced Security*, and *Permissive Security*, with the default setting being Full Security. You should ideally be using Full Security mode and avoid things like **kernel extensions** that force you to lower your security mode. Make sure to [check](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-security-settings-startup-disk-a-mac-mchl768f7291/mac) that you're using Full Security mode.

#### Secure Enclave

> The Secure Enclave is a security chip built into devices with Apple Silicon which is responsible for storing and generating encryption keys for data at rest as well as Face ID and Touch ID data. It contains its own separate boot ROM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Secure Enclave is a security chip built into devices with Apple silicon which is responsible for storing and generating encryption keys for data at rest as well as Face ID and Touch ID data. It contains its own separate boot ROM.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

You can think of the Secure Enclave as your device's security hub: it has an AES encryption engine and a mechanism to securely store your encryption keys, and it's separated from the rest of the system, so even if the main processor is compromised, it should still be safe.

#### Touch ID

Apple's Touch ID feature allows you to securely unlock your devices using biometrics.

Your biometric data never leaves your device; it's stored only in the Secure Enclave.

#### Hardware Microphone Disconnect

> All laptops with Apple Silicon or the T2 chip feature a hardware disconnect for the built-in microphone whenever the lid is closed. This means that there is no way for an attacker to listen to your Mac's microphone even if the operating system is compromised.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All laptops with Apple silicon or the T2 chip feature a hardware disconnect for the built-in microphone whenever the lid is closed. This means that there is no way for an attacker to listen to your Mac's microphone even if the operating system is compromised.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

Note that the camera does not have a hardware disconnect, since its view is obscured when the lid is closed anyway.

#### Peripheral Processor Security

Computers have built-in processors other than the main CPU that handle things like networking, graphics, power management, etc. These processors can have insufficient security and become compromised, therefore Apple tries to minimize the need for these processors in their hardware.

When it is necessary to use one of these processors, Apple works with the vendor to ensure that the processor

- runs verified firmware from the primary CPU on startup
- has its own Secure Boot chain
- follows minimum cryptographic standards
- ensures known bad firmware is properly revoked
- has its debug interfaces disabled
- is signed with Apple's cryptographic keys

#### Direct Memory Access Protections

> Apple Silicon separates each component that requires direct memory access. For example, a Thunderbolt port can't access memory designated for the kernel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apple silicon separates each component that requires direct memory access. For example, a Thunderbolt port can't access memory designated for the kernel.
```

Apple doesn't capitalize "silicon" in any instances.

---
title: macOS Overview
icon: simple/macos
description: macOS is Apple's desktop operating system that works with their hardware to provide strong security.
---
macOS provides great security out-of-the-box. With some tweaks, you can tailor it to your privacy needs.

## Hardware

Security features like Verified Boot rely on Apple's hardware to function properly. For this reason, we recommend you only run it on Macs and avoid hackintoshes.

> Apple's newer hardware always has the best security; you should check to make sure the Mac you're buying has at least their M1 chip, as their intel Macs are vulnerable to the [checkm8](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Checkm8_Exploit) exploit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Apple's newer hardware always has the best security; you should check to make sure the Mac you're buying has at least their M1 chip, as their Intel Macs are vulnerable to the [checkm8](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Checkm8_Exploit) exploit.
```

> If you use bluetooth accessories such as a keyboard, we recommend that you use official Apple ones as their firmware will automatically be updated for you by macOS. Using third party accessories is fine, but you should remember to install firmware updates for them regularly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you use Bluetooth accessories such as a keyboard, we recommend that you use official Apple ones as their firmware will automatically be updated for you by macOS. Using third party accessories is fine, but you should remember to install firmware updates for them regularly.
```

> Apple's SoC's focus on minimizing attack surface by religating security functions to dedicated hardware with limited functionality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Apple's SoCs focus on minimizing attack surface by relegating security functions to dedicated hardware with limited functionality.
```

### Boot ROM

> macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as secure boot. Macs verify this with a bit of Read-Only Memory on the SoC called the Boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as Secure Boot. Macs verify this with a bit of Read-Only Memory on the SoC called the Boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.
```

Author: Apple's official documentation actually doesn't capitalize this so I'll follow that

Reviewer 3: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208198

They do, actually.

---
title: macOS Overview
icon: material/apple-finder
description: macOS is Apple's desktop operating system that works with their hardware to provide strong security.
---
macOS provides great security out-of-the-box. With some tweaks, you can tailor it to your privacy needs.

## Hardware

> Many security features in macOS like secure boot rely on Apple's hardware to function properly. For this reason, we recommend you only run it on Macs and avoid hackintoshes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many security features in macOS like Secure Boot rely on Apple's hardware to function properly. For this reason, we recommend you only run it on Macs and avoid Hackintoshes.
```

Apple's documentation uses the capitalised forms: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208198

Author: Oh that's funny, they're not consistent about it

Apple's newer hardware always has the [best security](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/apple-soc-security-sec87716a080/1/web/1); you should check to make sure the Mac you're buying has at least their M1 chip, as their Intel Macs are vulnerable to the [checkm8](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Checkm8_Exploit) exploit.

If you use Bluetooth accessories such as a keyboard, we recommend that you use official Apple ones as their firmware will automatically be updated for you by macOS. Using third party accessories is fine, but you should remember to install firmware updates for them regularly.

Apple's SoCs focus on minimizing attack surface by relegating security functions to dedicated hardware with limited functionality.

### Boot ROM

> macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as secure boot. Macs verify this with a bit of Read-Only Memory on the SoC called the Boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
macOS prevents malware persistence by only allowing official Apple software to run at boot time; this is known as secure boot. Macs verify this with a bit of read-only memory on the SoC called the boot ROM, which is laid down during the manufacturing of the chip.
```

> The Boot ROM forms the hardware root of trust. This ensures that malware cannot tamper with the boot process. When your Mac boots up, the boot ROM is the first thing that runs, forming the first link in the chain of trust.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The boot ROM forms the hardware root of trust. This ensures that malware cannot tamper with the boot process. When your Mac boots up, the boot ROM is the first thing that runs, forming the first link in the chain of trust.
```

> Macs can be configured to boot in three security modes: *Full Security*, *Reduced Security*, and *Permissive Security*. You should ideally be using Full Security mode, but using things like kernel extensions can require a lower security mode. Make sure to [check](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-security-settings-startup-disk-a-mac-mchl768f7291/mac) that you're using the highest security mode you can. macOS uses Full Security by default.

Author: Yeah I specifically wanted to mention how they reduce the security of your system, maybe I didn't communicate that.

### App Revocation Checks

macOS performs online checks when you open an app to verify whether an app contains known malware, and whether the developer’s signing certificate is revoked.

Previously, these checks were performed via an unencrypted OCSP protocol which could leak information about the apps you ran to your network. Apple upgraded their OCSP service to use HTTPS encryption in 2021, and [posted information](https://support.apple.com/HT202491) about their logging policy for this service. They additionally promised to add a mechanism for people to opt-out of this online check, but this has not been added to macOS as of July 2023.

While you [can](https://eclecticlight.co/2021/02/23/how-to-run-apps-in-private/) manually opt out of this check relatively easily, we recommend against doing so unless you would be badly compromised by the revocation checks performed by macOS, because they serve an important role in ensuring compromised apps are blocked from running.

## Recommended Configuration

> Your account when you first set up your Mac will be an Administrator account, which has higher privileges than a Standard user account. It is considered [best practice](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/set-up-your-mac-to-be-secure-flvlt003/mac#mchlp6f0f578) by Apple (and us) to create a second, Standard user account which you use for day-to-day operations.

Author: Yeah I thought so

> Your account when you first set up your Mac will be an Administrator account, which has higher privileges than a Standard user account. It is considered [best practice](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/set-up-your-mac-to-be-secure-flvlt003/mac#mchlp6f0f578) by Apple (and us) to create a second, Standard user account which you use for day-to-day operations.

Reviewer: I missed that comment. Let me look into it more and double-check, but that goes against Apple’s recommendations in this area.

> Your account when you first set up your Mac will be an Administrator account, which has higher privileges than a Standard user account. It is considered [best practice](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/set-up-your-mac-to-be-secure-flvlt003/mac#mchlp6f0f578) by Apple (and us) to create a second, Standard user account which you use for day-to-day operations.

Reviewer: Updated 👍

It is not strictly required to ever log in to your original Administrator account from the macOS login screen. When you are doing something as a Standard user which requires Administrator permissions, the system should prompt you for authentication, where you can enter your Administrator credentials as your Standard user on a one-time basis. Apple provides [guidance](https://support.apple.com/HT203998) on hiding your Administrator account if you prefer to only see a single account on your login screen.

### iCloud

> The majority of privacy and security concerns with Apple products are related to their *cloud services*, not their hardware or software. When you use Apple services like iCloud, most of your information is stored on their servers and secured with keys *which Apple has access to* by default. This level of access has occasionally been abused by law enforcement to get around the fact that your data is otherwise securely encrypted on your device, and of course Apple is vulnerable to data breaches like any other company.

Reviewer: > most of your information

> implies that Apple has access to the every information

I don't think so?

> The majority of privacy and security concerns with Apple products are related to their *cloud services*, not their hardware or software. When you use Apple services like iCloud, most of your information is stored on their servers and secured with keys *which Apple has access to* by default. This level of access has occasionally been abused by law enforcement to get around the fact that your data is otherwise securely encrypted on your device, and of course Apple is vulnerable to data breaches like any other company.

Reviewer: I don’t think so, Apple using iCloud backups as a psuedo-backdoor is more commonly reported as a security problem in the media than similar services from other companies, probably because the way iCloud works is less obviously problematic (even though in reality it’s equally problematic). It’s also a common misconception that your Apple device *itself* or your iMessages *themselves* are unsafe, simply because Apple’s iCloud implementation is unsafe, so clearing that up specifically here reduces confusion.

I also don’t agree that it is a misrepresentation to say that most iCloud data is unencrypted by default when that is a true statement. The fact that your HomeKit data and stuff like that is E2EE is irrelevant *relative to* the fact that your photos, messages, device backups, etc. are *not* E2EE.

### Hardware Microphone Disconnect

> All laptops with Apple Silicon feature a hardware disconnect for the built-in microphone whenever the lid is closed. This means that there is no way for an attacker to listen to your Mac's microphone even if the operating system is compromised.

Author: Fixed
